\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics{images/contemplations/contemplation1C.png}
\caption{First Contemplation}
\end{figure}

\subsection{First Contemplation: Pyramid of
Capitalism}\label{first-contemplation-pyramid-of-capitalism}

In this phase we contemplate the evils of capitalism through the lens of
the pyramid, a universal symbol of that ideology. The pyramid in this
phase is not built in this phase, it is handed down from some earlier
fabrication possibly by someone else who gave us the pyramid. The harder
to make that is, the more it symbolizes the capitalist separation
between user and maker. This is bad, and we will contemplate it.

The pyramid can be taken out and around and put in line with various
artifacts of the capitalist world for simultaneous contemplation. In
order to fully grasp this, it may be necessary to flop around on the
ground to mover your head to just the right spot to \emph{really} see
the pyramid and also the capitalist artifact. Artifacts will tend to be
vast capitalist mounds of stone they use to symbolize their own power:
skyscrapers, banks, huge stone pillars in parks, etc. Also mines. As you
flop around on the ground getting different lines of sight you will
eventually find the right perspective for this Contemplation, and then
can make an art project out of this, in any medium: paint, ink,
charcoal, pencil, pastel, plaster sculpture, stone sculpture, wood
sculpture, video, photo, dance performance.

The Contemplation can also be carried out at home by placing the pyramid
in front of a small capitalist artifact, playing the proper music, and
vigorously flopping around on the floor in ALL DIRECTIONS while
maintaining eye contact with the pyramid and evil artifact of capital.

Theme music for this Contemplation starts with City of Darkness by
Funker Vogt, which I think captures some of the essence of capitalist
evil. Perhaps also Capitalists Suck by DRI should be part of the play
list if it's more songs, and I'll add some more as time goes on.
Hopefully eventually people will compose their own free music for each
Contemplation so that the culture exists outside copyright.
