## Heilmeier Catechism for LafeLabs Book Project
* What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.
Build industry without capitalism. The goal of this project is to provide both the philosophical motivation and the practical technological tools to give people the benefits of industrial civilization while freeing them from the centralized capitalist machine that is now the source of all technology.  
Specifically my goal is to produce one book on the ideas and one book on the techniques of actually building this technology.  Each book will be accompanied by extensive online media content, video, code, art, and 3d files.  A finished product will also be created in this project in the form of a artifact that is built mostly outside capitalism which anyone anywhere in the world can build with local found materials and which can be used as a seed to build up industry anywhere by anyone.  
The scope of this project is not to build the whole post capitalist industry, it is rather to build the skeleton of it, and create a path for others to join and build their own technology from the ground up.  All content created for this project will be 100% free and open--no intellectual property will be declared of any kind.  * How is it done today, and what are the limits of current practice?
This project is a combination anti-capitalist manifesto, applied physics text, and industrial production method.  

Existing manifestos against capitalism are generally of a non technical nature.  The existing literature which documents the failures of capitalism is vast, detailed and quite convincing already.  However all of this is of a purely political nature, and tends not to be specific in solutions.  If it is specific, it's generally of non technical nature.  Various alternatives to capitalism will detail what people do in regards to the "means of production", but do not generally delve into the actual nature of that infrastructure.  

This work will take the opposite approach.  Here I assume that there are many ways to relate socially to the machines that are used to help us live better lives, and that the missing link in the path out of capitalism is to study those machines in more detail and make them better.  So rather than belaboring my position in regards to various flavors of communism or anarchism, I'm simply going to say what I'm against(my unique definition of capitalism defined in the text) and then describe specifically how technology would be different if built without capitalist values.  I also go into detail about how different it is to build a technology now, after 300 years of industrial capitalist development than it would have been even 50 years ago.  We can take a global trash supply for granted now filled with high value materials which would simply not have existed at any time in the past.  

Another type of existing document that is in a similar vein if not quite a manifesto is the various works that claim to reform capitalism with some sort of green wash strategy, like Cradle to Cradle(which I actually quite like) and Natural Capitalism(which I think is a dreadful book).  What differs in my approach is that I don't really care if capitalism can be reformed--whether it can or cannot, I believe that it should not.  I believe that it is evil for various reasons I'll elaborate on in the text and that we must replace it for moral reasons.  Now.  Without delay.  One thing that makes my approach unusual is that when books that flirt with post capitalism and are of a technical nature they tend to propose a collaborationist approach, where one works within capitalism to build a better system.  This work is from a much more radical position, more typical of the purely political manifestos.  

I believe that my combination of practical technical descriptions and prescriptions with a pure anticapitalist ideology is fairly unusual and that with my expertise it can generate something with much higher impact on society than either a pure manifesto or a technical work that assumes limited capitalism. 

Looking at existing introductory physics texts, they are generally neither practical nor political.  That is you don't really learn  how to build motors, forage for hydrogen, make drugs, or build a telecommunications network out of trash. Instead you learn **general** principles.  The main difference between my text and standard texts will be specificity.  Rather than just learn what a quantity is and how you *might* calculate it, the reader will learn specifically what they need to actually build stuff fast and in a real environment outside capitalism.  If you can't measure it with stuff you can find around you, I won't put it in.  But if it affects your life as a inhabitant of our technical world, i'll do my best to give you some tools to mess around with it.  
* What's new in your approach and why do you think it will be successful?
In a word: specificity and radicalism.  Many existing anti capitalist works are specific and others are deeply radical.  My approach is to deconstruct all the underlying structures of our civilization and yet to be very technically specific about machines that the reader can build themselves.  I will also be creating a supply chain that will enable readers to work together to supply all other readers with as much of the stuff as they can use.  
* Who cares? If you're successful, what difference will it make?Primary target audience of the non-technical work is anti capitalists of all types, nationalities, and political persuasions.  Since I claim that capitalism in its current form is a threat to all life on earth, this should in theory include anyone who is aware of that dynamic.  The primary target audience of the technical work is people who enjoy technology and crafting and building and want to actually build this stuff up from scratch.  It is also aimed at the radicalized physicist who is looking to redirect their education toward creation instead of destruction.  I believe this work can become a element of the growing global culture of insurrection.  If successful, every occupation, squat, autonomous zone, and commune in the world can be transformed into production zones where free people build free technology for a free world.  This can change the whole game, where a 1 week occupation can dissolve itself and still have created a real lasting thing with impact.  
Also I believe that this work can provide a seed from which a whole culture can emerge of technological independence, creating many parallel industrial civilizations, not just one.  One of the things that makes our society so painfully stifling is the fact that we're all trapped: you can move to any country in the world and you'll find the same technology, same companies, same laws, same customs, and same basic system.  I believe that if we build a technology that allows about 100 people to declare total physical independence from the rest of the world that we can free humanity to decide their own politics without having the whole other 7 billion humans all go along with it.  
* What are the risks and the payoffs?
The primary risk is that I am unable to survive in the capitalist system while working on this and that what limited funds I can raise are insufficient to keep me from going back to paid work inside the system.  I believe that I have enough things I can do to keep expenses down and find income from consulting that I can keep doing this indefinitely and I am committed enough to it that I believe I'll keep doing it even if I have to take other work sometimes. The next biggest risk is that my stuff is just not that good or original and never gets going.  I believe that my record with creating new technology and bringing it from theory to practice in vastly different situations minimizes this risk.  I've done harder things than this, faster, and with less of a plan.  I believe I can make something that at the very least is fun and educational, which justifies the project. * How much will it cost? How long will it take?
As a rough ballpark estimate, I believe the startup phase of this project is about the next 5 years, and that I'd like to spend about 50k/year for much of that time.  So the total cost for that time is a somewhat daunting $250k, but that's really about $4,000/ month in funding.  * What are the midterm and final "exams" to check for success?
1. build a working vibrational driver(done)2. build a working rotational motor(works, needs improvement)3. Build a robot that works to roam around(by summer 2016)
4. build a generic power generator that you can use to charge capacitors and batteries(by summer 2016)
5. build a 3d POV robot tool(by fall 2016)
6. youtube channel set up, first technical content loaded and described(sort of started, really up by fall 2016)
7. instructibles same thing(winter 2016)
8. full manuscript rough draft for non technical book(winter 2016-17)
9. same thing for technical book(winter 2016-17)
10. edited version ready for physical print non technical(summer 2017)
11. same thing technical(summer 2017)
12. books sent to printer, ready for purchase as physical object by anyone in the world(fall 2017)
13. full trash wizard core technology built: the Stick(summer 2017)
14. trash wizard stick documented with full video on youtube for free(summer2017)
15. Other people are trained to build the basic trash wizard technology, and trained to build up more technology from there, the system begins to self-sustain, by recruiting more participants who build up more knowledge(2018)
16. trash wizards start to build industrial infrastructure within hours after any leftist occupation anywhere in the world with found materials, get all members of occupation trained on operation and expansion of system(2019-2020)
17. tribes of trash wizards can become self sustaining, growing all the food and medicine they need(2021)

* Why Lafe?  Why am I qualified to carry this out?

I have dedicated my career to bringing technology from the theoretical concept stage to a fully deployed product.  I've done this with several branches of the military industrial complex, working as a grad student at Yale University under a US Army grant on quantum devices, as a federal employee at NIST building more quantum devices on grants from the NSA and US Navy.  I've worked as an IARPA sub-contractor for IBM, and as a consultant for APL, and have been involved in the process of starting a quantum technology company.  I have seen many different sides of the military industrial complex, and watched the full process by which that system brings technology from concept to production.  

I have also done technology development outside of the military industrial complex, building totally new types of sex toy and bringing them to market as part of a startup company that I founded in 2012.  I have since passed on all management and ownership of that company to others, but the technology is going strong and is a commercial success.  My experience with the consumer goods industry from this is what brought me to carry out the present work.  I saw that everything we were making came from mined materials and exploited overseas labor(we make things in the US at high wages but the parts all have to come from overseas).  This led me down a path toward full anti-capitalism.  

No one is more qualified to criticize capitalism than someone who has really done it.  I've started multiple businesses, I've run board meetings, hired and fired both line workers and senior management. I've raised investor capital and taken out and paid back business loans.  I've run payroll, rented space on a commercial lease, dealt with liability insurance, and complicated accounting issues.  I've filed for patents, worked on building up a brand, and worked with marketing people on what is needed to sell a thing.  

It is based on those experiences that I'm speaking as a critic of capitalism.  I believe that what I have seen by working both in private sector technology and deep inside the military industrial complex and university system makes me uniquely qualified to criticize the way those systems deploy new technology.  

I also have been a member of a anarchist collective house, where I had my lab for about a year, and have experience interacting and working in that environment, which I believe is relevant for effective deployment of my post capitalist technology.  

When I was in graduate school, I TA'd an introductory electromagnetism for physicists class for which I built a lot of demonstrations. I have experience with both DIY electronics and building convincing demonstrations with minimal resources.  

I already have the basic technology figured out.  I have the bare bones of a book, an outline and a bunch of material for several of the chapters.  I also have the experience of having written a phd dissertation, which has been read much more than most dissertations, and which I reformatted for self-publication on lulu press in bound hard copy 6x9 inch form.

* How will funding work?

When you patronize this project, you are a patron.  That means you support the mission, and are giving money without strings attached for me to carry out this work.  If you are not satisfied, you can stop giving money.  But it is important for this project to work that I not be subject to outside editorial control, so donations are strictly that: donations, not payment for a product or service.  The products of this work will be made freely available to the entire world without any restrictions whatsoever. I will be raising money primarily through Patreon, although direct donations via  check are acceptable for large amounts, all small amounts(under $1,000) should be through Patreon.


Exceptions will be for some "gift shop"  items which will be for sale via a fairly automated store that donates all profits to my artistic and technical efforts.  That will be a place where you can buy various overpriced shirts and some modestly priced electronics that you can use to do some of these projects without having to invest as much time.  Essentially the technology should allow people to choose between spending zero money and a bunch of time or spending as much money as they want to donate to the project and getting some hardware that makes it simpler to get started.  Robots will mostly not be for sale except as one-off art pieces.  Functional robots will be available for anyone to acquire outside the capitalist system using the economic structures described in this work.  

Donations will never be tax deductible.  I believe that tax deductible non profits are very dangerous, and allow the government to have too much say in what happens with that money and how the organization works.  I am a one person LLC registered in Colorado with a business bank account that only I use.  If I make money this way it is from a business standpoint as an independent artist, much like a cartoonist online who puts their work up for free but asks for patron donations.  Advertisement will never be a source of revenue.  

I will be as open as I can about the details of my use of funds.  If the amount of funds raised exceeds a few thousand dollars a month, I will start distributing it to other people who can extend this work, also with essentially no strings attached except choosing who to fund. 

