\subsection{Slipping Between the
Cracks}\label{slipping-between-the-cracks}

Where can we build? Where can we work and play and live? Between the
cracks. Between the cracks of the industrial system, between the cracks
of empire, between the cracks of cement and steel. Just as we seek to
build from the discarded materials and energy of the old world, we seek
to thrive and grow in the spaces they have cast aside.

As with materials, those spaces are incredibly rich in every possible
way, when looked at outside the value system of capitalism. Often these
spaces are considered off limits by the powers that be, and are
supposedly private property. However the spaces I'm thinking of are not
monitored and indeed must be ignored for the system to work.

The foul waste filled waterways of suburban New Jersey are one example.
Often spaces under freeway bridges are ignored and abandoned yet
centrally located in a city. Abandoned factories are a fantastic place
to re-start industry in the places abandoned and destroyed by organized
capital. The dark, unkempt corners of various parks have places where
someone can vanish from sight and be centrally located with access to
people and infrastructure.

In general, our first choice for location will be somewhere that has
naturally flowing water. This could be either a flow of fresh water or a
tidal flow, but it is important both for a source of unlimited energy
and for a source of materials. Deep water is useful for being able to
move very large freight such as salvaged trucks or airplanes found
underwater into position to work on in the production zone.

Water also serves as a source of coolness for protection against hot
climates. Evaporation can be used for added cooling power using water
driven pumps. plumbing which can be taken apart, moved, and put back
together should purify and move the water around, making hot bath water
and god drinking water, as well as building the input for the biological
and chemical reactors which will process human waste.

After water and energy, concealment is probably the next priority for
the ``between the cracks'' model. The easiest way to do this is to be
very low key and work on existing land. If you can camp somewhere, and
the Trash Magic industrial production is quiet and small enough, perhaps
you can simply do it un-noticed wherever you happen to be. Setting up in
the factories the industrial system has abandoned en masse in places
like the industrial Midwest of the USA is another great concealment
strategy.

Camouflage in design is also an important tool. We should be prepared to
build infrastructure that does not look like infrastructure. One of the
ways in which the symbology of Trash Magic can be used is in an
extension of Hobo symbology which allows for cryptic marks to indicate
what infrastructure exists where. Part of the art we study is building
working technology which looks like the environment because it simply
\emph{is} the environment: boulders, logs, sticks, rocks, patches of
seaweed, etc. Substantial infrastructure for industrial production of
all kinds can be designed, built, and deployed in this manner where only
the initiates in our Magic will even know it's there.

\subsection{Bring the Means of Production to the
Action}\label{bring-the-means-of-production-to-the-action}

Most communists and anarchists direct us to turn the factory into a
place of political action. I propose to do the opposite: to bring the
means of production to the action. Where there are protests or
occupations or refugee camps or war or poverty, Trash Magic can shine a
light in the darkness.

One of the great tragedies of every radical commune project is when the
forces of Law and Order inevitably come in and destroy everything. In
the case of Occupy, there were libraries, various other services, first
aid tents, all sorts of art and carefully built spaces, which were all
deliberately destroyed by the New York Police Department in their
repression. I see this as very avoidable. Rather than building static
infrastructure which mirrors capitalist infrastructure, I propose that
infrastructure built during various occupations and insurrections should
always be dynamic and mobile. And \emph{all} of it should be art of the
kind which can be easily gifted to others, to spread what has been made.

\subsection{Production in Autonomous
zones}\label{production-in-autonomous-zones}

One of our goals is to erase arbitrary lines between things that are
currently separated. Just as some people have tried to erase lines
between protest, occupation and party. I want to erase lines between
industry and art, between protests and factories and workshops and
squats. Anywhere there are people and materials there can be industry.

It's worth mentioning that I don't mean just crafts or hobbies or art in
the current definitions. Part of what separates industry from those
activities today is how they all scale. Art gets its value partly from a
deliberate non-scalability. Crafts are almost deliberately set up to be
non scalable as well, to create some kind of perverse joy in doing
things slowly and with a lot of specialized skills. One speaks of a
``craftsperson'' as someone who has mastered some difficult special
skill, and who therefore has special privileges associated with that
skill.

In Marx's day there was such a thing as an industrial worker, and maybe
in some places there still is. The industrial worker is part of a larger
whole which uses economies of scale to change how people, energy and
materials move in such a way that it will always beat out other forms of
production on efficiency and ``price''. This has led to a historical
dead end as the capitalists have carved up the global working class so
effectively. And good riddance! Do we really all want to work in some
giant factory doing identical boring tasks for many hours, even if the
IWW ``owns'' the factory and we all have free food and health care? No
to that future! We should bring the factory to the streets where the
party is, inject art and culture in it, and make it able to thrive and
grow fast in the current world.

Here's how it happens. Anywhere there are people, energy and materials,
we just start building industrially and creating art as part of that
process. We build processes and document them(this used to be called
culture) which can be spread and expanded quickly, which allow any group
of people with minimal skills to rapidly build an effectively infinite
inventory of useful industrial products such as air conditioners, water
purifiers, massagers, grinding tools, communications infrastructure,
blenders, coffee machines, electric wheelchairs, soaring surveillance
drones, and medicine. All these goods are immediately entered into the
global decentralized database of free artifacts, which allows them to be
immediately taken by courier by hand to users who absorb it instantly
into society.

This totally changes the balance of power in any occupation. If instead
of occupying the center of town and putting ourselves in conflict with
current society we imagine a bunch of yuppies having to go down into a
Sacrifice Zone to get some awesome artifact they can't get anywhere
else, which they also can't pay fed debt for. There is no transfer of
fed debt or ``ownership'', so all the normal regulations that apply to
commerce do not apply. We slip between the cracks to build up the
factory, make stuff, absorb trash, improve the environment by putting in
infrastructure easter eggs, and disappear. Often the people who come
together to do this will simply not exist as a coherent organization
before or after the industrial/art event.

The powers that be know how to protect ``property'' and to keep the have
nots from getting it from the haves. Much of this has to do with
regulating money. What they do not have experience with is free people
giving away free stuff from trash and ambient energy in on and around
their system. They're prepared for a broken shop window, but not a free
beer fountain in the park. They're prepared for a black bloc in the
middle of the town square but not a boat factory in the middle of a
polluted-to-death river. They are prepared for half a dozen commercial
surveillance drones sent to spy on the cops. They are not prepared for
10,000 soaring drones built from trash, soaring over the dead land of
the American West looking for pollution and mapping it for future use by
our industry.

This set of tactics then informs the overall strategy and vice versa. It
tells you where to occupy and for how long and with whom, at least to
some extent. We need ambient energy. That means the sun, the wind, and
moving water. Moving water is usually going to be the best choice
because the energy density can be so high. With 1000 times the density
of air, a relatively slow river can be much better than even pretty fast
wind. And way more pleasant to work around. Also waves and tides can be
used, as well as in some cases water that has been pumped uphill over a
long time before the establishment of a industrial occupation.

We reflect the industrial occupation of today through the looking glass:
rather than not building stuff in a factory(strike, occupation) we build
stuff in a not-factory.

So the first choice for a site is on flowing water, with tides and waves
especially helpful. Also note that natural water, even very polluted
water, is also a source of many useful industrial feedstock materials.
At minimum you have hydrogen and oxygen, but usually also a vast wealth
of other chemicals. So a very polluted wetland in the mouth of a river
is an ideal site. With a combination of skeletron and plastic we can
build an amphibious set of shelters and transports and food and water
production which add up to self sufficiency.

Then we need materials, raw materials with a clear path to an
industrially produced artifact or set of artifacts and raw materials to
be moved by courier to another post capitalist industry node.

We roll in, we build and distribute, set up infrastructure easter eggs,
and move on. While we're there, we create a one-off unique culture for
that time and place, which propagates through the physical artifacts
which carry data that includes the artistic culture of that unique time
and place. This also means that the phenomenon that replaces the current
protest model can be more long lasting. Imagine if any of the famous
protests or occupations, such as for instance the AIM occupation of
Alcatraz had been run this way. You could, today, use an artifact with a
piece of iron from a rebar salvaged from Alcatraz and painted by one of
the occupiers there. Such an artifact could then have been used for an
electromagnet in a big motor that ground coffee beans in Zuccotti park
during Occupy Wall Street, which was then incorporated into a sort of
Jawa art car that roams the toxic waste deserts of Arizona, collecting
minerals for another future project, all with added stories and media
and art.

How different this would be! We could all be participating in various
insurrections, art communes, famous science experiments, and huge
parties at the same time, endlessly remixing artifacts that carry all
that culture with them.

\subsection{Life in the Delta}\label{life-in-the-delta}

The future of humanity is in the river deltas. just as the past. And
it's easy. So many cities have out of the way places an amphibious trash
magic industrial culture can flourish without detection. Freight
transport powered by tidal energy driving electrochemical cells can be
used as a universal industrial supply chain, with vast amounts of trash
gathered for free from underwater salvage and swamp and wetland salvage.
Distribution of goods into the capitalist economy in the heart of a city
via waterfront parks can then easily happen, also under the radar. By
under the radar, I literally mean under the actual radar, with boats of
such a low profile that they are not distinguishable from wave action by
radar. Fabrication will be right on the edge of water and air, with
objects able to be moved in and out, water to be sprayed and pumped and
mixed.

The capitalists have had nanotechnology all wrong. They have been
looking for a clean technology with perfect control. That's wrong. You
want only fractal control, and very dirty, to in fact eliminate the
concept of dirty. ``Dirty'' is a capitalist delusion. We must look
beyond it. Under water, fire is also less of a hazard. Hydrogen and
oxygen gas plumbing should be everywhere, as well as compressed air,
fresh water, DC power, and various materials which can be sent in tubes
via plastic cells that get pushed along and tracked. Just the ability to
make QR codes in plastic combined with floating plastic and pumps can
make a amazing network demo. Also for data transmission, when you have
material transmission like this, it's always trivial to send data by
putting a piece of physical memory onto a boat that runs along the
channel just like in the pure information based networks of today. Thus
one of the many lines we seek to erase that arbitrarily divide the world
is the line between data and not data. Data is another capitalist
delusion. Information is physical.

Also agriculture. If it were in stormy seas or tidal shallow water with
strong currents it should be much higher density. With both the atomic
feedstock of seawater and the energy content of the tides and waves,
infinite amounts of fresh water, minerals, nutrients, and light(possibly
from electric lights, to get 24/7 underwater agriculture), also things
can be 3d with light generated electrically, water coming in from all
sides, temperature control. The density of crop cultivation should go up
by way more than an order of magnitude, probably at least 2 orders of
magnitude. Thus a few acres of swampy wetlands in a strong tide with a
good river current could sustain hundreds of people comfortably if the
infrastructure is built right. And since it's all mobile and modular and
can be built from trash, even if we all have to move or the State takes
the stuff, infinite infinite.

In addition to deep ocean and river delta areas, this process can build
up land out of the ocean where it is shallow as it often is in the
tropics. Trash can be built up into reefs of industry, designed to draw
energy out of and thrive in storms. This can change the face of the
globe.

\subsection{Guerrilla Fairy Art}\label{guerrilla-fairy-art}

Or maybe Applied Guerrilla Geometry. Or viral physical geometry or
something like that. That's where this all starts. In order to build a
production and value system art must be produced which has elements of
magic and technology and pure art and also spreads by itself by being
amusing or interesting and totally free to copy. It will seem as if
faeries are literally out in the wild building things, as they seem to
just reproduce on their own, spreading across the land like magic. Even
if you are constantly actively producing magical things yourself(the
guerrilla aspect) the works of others will still seem like it's been
done by fairies in the sense that it will feel totally alien. This is
how it all starts! Watch for freely growing magical geometry to appear
near you!
