## Slipping Between the Cracks

Where can we build?  Where can we work and play and live?  Between the cracks.  Between the cracks of the industrial system, between the cracks of empire, between the cracks of cement and steel.  Just as we seek to build from the discarded materials and energy of the old world, we seek to thrive and grow in the spaces they have cast aside.  

As with materials, those spaces are incredibly rich in every possible way, when looked at outside the value system of capitalism.  Often these spaces are considered off limits by the powers that be, and are supposedly private property.  However the spaces I'm thinking of are not monitored and indeed must be ignored for the system to work.  

The foul waste filled waterways of suburban New Jersey are one example.  Often spaces under freeway bridges are ignored and abandoned yet centrally located in a city.  Abandoned factories are a fantastic place to re-start industry in the places abandoned and destroyed by organized capital.  The dark, unkempt corners of various parks have places where someone can vanish from sight and be centrally located with access to people and infrastructure.  

In general, our first choice for location will be somewhere that has naturally flowing water.  This could be either a flow of fresh water or a tidal flow, but it is important both for a source of unlimited energy and for a source of materials. Deep water is useful for being able to move very large freight such as salvaged trucks or airplanes found underwater into position to work on in the production zone.  

Water also serves as a source of coolness for protection against hot climates.  Evaporation can be used for added cooling power using water driven pumps.  plumbing which can be taken apart, moved, and put back together should purify and move the water around, making hot bath water and god drinking water, as well as building the input for the biological and chemical reactors which will process human waste.  

After water and energy, concealment is probably the next priority for the "between the cracks" model.  The easiest way to do this is to be very low key and work on existing land.  If you can camp somewhere, and the Trash Magic industrial production is quiet and small enough, perhaps you can simply do it un-noticed wherever you happen to be.  Setting up in the factories the industrial system has abandoned en masse in places like the industrial Midwest of the USA is another great concealment strategy.  

Camouflage in design is also an important tool.  We should be prepared to build infrastructure that does not look like infrastructure.  One of the ways in which the symbology of Trash Magic can be used is in an extension of Hobo symbology which allows for cryptic marks to indicate what infrastructure exists where.  Part of the art we study is building working technology which looks like the environment because it simply *is* the environment: boulders, logs, sticks, rocks, patches of seaweed, etc.  Substantial infrastructure for industrial production of all kinds can be designed, built, and deployed in this manner where only the initiates in our Magic will even know it's there.   


## Bring the Means of Production to the Action


Most communists and anarchists direct us to turn the factory into a place of political action.  I propose to do the opposite: to bring the means of production to the action.  Where there are protests or occupations or refugee camps or war or poverty, Trash Magic can shine a light in the darkness.

One of the great tragedies of every radical commune project is when the forces of Law and Order inevitably come in and destroy everything.  In the case of Occupy, there were libraries, various other services, first aid tents, all sorts of art and carefully built spaces, which were all deliberately destroyed by the New York Police Department in their repression.  I see this as very avoidable.  Rather than building static infrastructure which mirrors capitalist infrastructure, I propose that infrastructure built during various occupations and insurrections should always be dynamic and mobile.  And *all* of it should be art of the kind which can be easily gifted to others, to spread what has been made.  


## Production in Autonomous zones

One of our goals is to erase arbitrary lines between things that are currently separated.  Just as some people have tried to erase lines between protest, occupation and party. I want to erase lines between industry and art, between protests and factories and workshops and squats.  Anywhere there are people and materials there can be industry. 

It's worth mentioning that I don't mean just crafts or hobbies or art in the current definitions.  Part of what separates industry from those activities today is how they all scale.  Art gets its value partly from a deliberate non-scalability.  Crafts are almost deliberately set up to be non scalable as well, to create some kind of perverse joy in doing things slowly and with a lot of specialized skills.  One speaks of a "craftsperson" as someone who has mastered some difficult special skill, and who therefore has special privileges associated with that skill.  

In Marx's day there was such a thing as an industrial worker, and maybe in some places there still is.  The industrial worker is part of a larger whole which uses economies of scale to change how people, energy and materials move in such a way that it will always beat out other forms of production on efficiency and "price".  This has led to a historical dead end as the capitalists have carved up the global working class so effectively.  And good riddance!  Do we really all want to work in some giant factory doing identical boring tasks for many hours, even if the IWW "owns" the factory and we all have free food and health care? No to that future! We should bring the factory to the streets where the party is, inject art and culture in it, and make it able to thrive and grow fast in the current world. 

Here's how it happens.  Anywhere there are people, energy and materials, we just start building industrially and creating art as part of that process. We build processes and document them(this used to be called culture) which can be spread  and expanded quickly, which allow any group of people with minimal skills to rapidly build an effectively infinite inventory of useful industrial products such as air conditioners, water purifiers, massagers, grinding tools, communications infrastructure, blenders, coffee machines, electric wheelchairs, soaring surveillance drones, and medicine.  All these goods are immediately entered into the global decentralized database of free artifacts, which allows them to be immediately taken by courier by hand to users who absorb it instantly into society.  

This totally changes the balance of power in any occupation.  If instead of occupying the center of town and putting ourselves in conflict with current society we imagine a bunch of yuppies having to go down into a Sacrifice Zone to get some awesome artifact they can't get anywhere else, which they also can't pay fed debt for. There is no transfer of fed debt or "ownership", so all the normal regulations that apply to commerce do not apply.  We slip between the cracks to build up the factory, make stuff, absorb trash, improve the environment by putting in infrastructure easter eggs, and disappear.  Often the people who come together to do this will simply not exist as a coherent organization before or after the industrial/art event.  

The powers that be know how to protect "property" and to keep the have nots from getting it from the haves.  Much of this has to do with regulating money.  What they do not have experience with is free people giving away free stuff from trash and ambient energy in on and around their system.  They're prepared for a broken shop window, but not a free beer fountain in the park.  They're prepared for a black bloc in the middle of the town square but not a boat factory in the middle of a polluted-to-death river.  They are prepared for half a dozen commercial surveillance drones sent to spy on the cops.  They are not prepared for 10,000 soaring drones built from trash, soaring over the dead land of the American West looking for pollution and mapping it for future use by our industry.  

This set of tactics then informs the overall strategy and vice versa.  It tells you where to occupy and for how long and with whom, at least to some extent.  We need ambient energy. That means the sun, the wind, and moving water.  Moving water is usually going to be the best choice because the energy density can be so high.  With 1000 times the density of air, a relatively slow river can be much better than even pretty fast wind.  And way more pleasant to work around.  Also waves and tides can be used, as well as in some cases water that has been pumped uphill over a long time before the establishment of a industrial occupation.  

We reflect the industrial occupation of today through the looking glass: rather than not building stuff in a factory(strike, occupation) we build stuff in a not-factory.  

So the first choice for a site is on flowing water, with tides and waves especially helpful.  Also note that natural water, even very polluted water, is also a source of many useful industrial feedstock materials.  At minimum you have hydrogen and oxygen, but usually also a vast wealth of other chemicals.  So a very polluted wetland in the mouth of a river is an ideal site.  With a combination of skeletron and plastic we can build an amphibious set of shelters and transports and food and water production which add up to self sufficiency.  

Then we need materials, raw materials with a clear path to an industrially produced artifact or set of artifacts and raw materials to be moved by courier to another post capitalist industry node.  

We roll in, we build and distribute, set up infrastructure easter eggs, and move on.  While we're there, we create a one-off unique culture for that time and place, which propagates through the physical artifacts which carry data that includes the artistic culture of that unique time and place.  This also means that the phenomenon that replaces the current protest model can be more long lasting.  Imagine if any of the famous protests or occupations, such as for instance the AIM occupation of Alcatraz had been run this way.  You could, today, use an artifact with a piece of iron from a rebar salvaged from Alcatraz and painted by one of the occupiers there.  Such an artifact could then have been used for an electromagnet in a big motor that ground coffee beans in Zuccotti park during Occupy Wall Street, which was then incorporated into a sort of Jawa art car that roams the toxic waste deserts of Arizona, collecting minerals for another future project, all with added stories and media and art.  

How different this would be! We could all be participating in various insurrections, art communes, famous science experiments, and huge parties at the same time, endlessly remixing artifacts that carry all that culture with them.  


## Life in the Delta

The future of humanity is in the river deltas.  just as the past.  And it's easy.  So many cities have out of the way places an amphibious trash magic industrial culture can flourish without detection.  Freight transport powered by tidal energy driving electrochemical cells can be used as a universal industrial supply chain, with vast amounts of trash gathered for free from underwater salvage and swamp and wetland salvage.  Distribution of goods into the capitalist economy in the heart of a city via waterfront parks can then easily happen, also under the radar.  By under the radar, I literally mean under the actual radar, with boats of such a low profile that they are not distinguishable from wave action by radar.  Fabrication will be right on the edge of water and air, with objects able to be moved in and out, water to be sprayed and pumped and mixed.   

The capitalists have had nanotechnology all wrong.  They have been looking for a clean technology with perfect control.  That's wrong.  You want only fractal control, and very dirty, to in fact eliminate the concept of dirty.  "Dirty" is a capitalist delusion.  We must look beyond it.  Under water, fire is also less of a hazard.  Hydrogen and oxygen gas plumbing should be everywhere, as well as compressed air, fresh water, DC power, and various materials which can be sent in tubes via plastic cells that get pushed along and tracked. Just the ability to make QR codes in plastic combined with floating plastic and pumps can make a amazing network demo.  Also for data transmission, when you have material transmission like this, it's always trivial to send data by putting a piece of physical memory onto a boat that runs along the channel just like in the pure information based networks of today.  Thus one of the many lines we seek to erase that arbitrarily divide the world is the line between data and not data.  Data is another capitalist delusion.  Information is physical.  


Also agriculture. If it were in stormy seas or tidal shallow water with strong currents it should be much higher density.  With both the atomic feedstock of seawater and the energy content of the tides and waves, infinite amounts of fresh water, minerals, nutrients, and light(possibly from electric lights, to get 24/7 underwater agriculture), also things can be 3d with light generated electrically, water coming in from all sides, temperature control.  The density of crop cultivation should go up by way more than an order of magnitude, probably at least 2 orders of magnitude.  Thus a few acres of swampy wetlands in a strong tide with a  good river current could sustain hundreds of people comfortably if the infrastructure is built right.  And since it's all mobile and modular and can be built from trash, even if we all have to move or the State takes the stuff, infinite infinite.  

In addition to deep ocean and river delta areas, this process can build up land out of the ocean where it is shallow as it often is in the tropics.  Trash can be built up into reefs of industry, designed to draw energy out of and thrive in storms.  This can change the face of the globe.

## Guerrilla Fairy Art

Or maybe Applied Guerrilla Geometry.  Or viral physical geometry or something like that.  That's where this all starts.  In order to build a production and value system art must be produced which has elements of magic and technology and pure art and also spreads by itself by being amusing or interesting and totally free to copy.  It will seem as if faeries are literally out in the wild building things, as they seem to just reproduce on their own, spreading across the land like magic.  Even if you are constantly actively producing magical things yourself(the guerrilla aspect) the works of others will still seem like it's been done by fairies in the sense that it will feel totally alien.  This is how it all starts! Watch for freely growing magical geometry to appear near you!
