\subsection{Technology Should be Slimy and
Dirty}\label{technology-should-be-slimy-and-dirty}

Look around you. We are leaky bags of salty dirty water, and we are
surrounded by mud and dirty rocks on all sides. This is the world we
live and grow and thrive in. It's how our food grows, it's how our waste
is disposed of, it's how we get our raw materials and how we dispose of
our ``trash''.

And yet this is not how our technology is.

Our technology is, instead, obsessed with the clean and ``pure''. It is
obsessed with order, with perfect rows of things, with straight lines
and perfectly geometric circles. The very structure of all our
technology represents our worship of numbers and math and military
order, as well as of mining and minerals.

I will go into more detail on this later, but I believe the structure of
the modern micofabricated circuit is a product of the white supremacist
ideology of the far right lunatics who started Silicon Valley. They
were, like all of their kind, obsessed with ``purity'', order, and
forcing everyone to march to a perfectly timed clock. This is borne out
in a machine architecture which they pretend is a product of some kind
of technical evolution but which is just as much a function of their
capitalist religion as the rows of decorative stone columns they place
outside their buildings of power.

If, rather than Evil Machines, we want our technology to be more human
and more life like, it should resemble what we see around us in the
living world. This means it should be largely filled with and immersed
in dirty water. And it should be capable of moving fluids and gasses
around at around with simple circulation systems.

Another key distinction of living systems is that they do not
distinguish between material transport, data transport, energy and
electrical transport. All of these involve the flow of ions and various
big molecules through fluids.

Our non-living technical systems crudely split these functions off from
one another. We have banished pure information to the domain of
``computers'', all controlled by the all powerful Master Control Program
of the Central Processing Unit. Fluids flow as needed for cooling for
chemicals, but are clearly lower in the hierarchy than information which
rules all in today's ``tech'' world. Ions in fluid rarely take a
deliberate role unless it's in a living system and cannot be
avoided(people drinking sport drinks with electrolytes, or use of acid
in car batteries).

\subsection{Moving Fluids Around}\label{moving-fluids-around}

One type of magic that must be wielded if we expect to have a decent
life is potion making. This means mixing fluids, moving them around with
pumps, compressing them, running electricity through them, and also
doing things with gasses of various kinds. This is needed to efficiently
compost waste at a high speed safely and to build up plant growth
infrastructure fast for food production. It is also where novel
chemicals and various life saving drugs come from.

Fluidics is generally a term used to refer to the use of fluids in ways
that are analogous to electronic circuits. Since Trash Magic seeks to
eliminate the boundaries between fluid flow and electronics, I want to
integrate this word into our vocabulary to help blur that line. Here I
will briefly describe how the fluidic systems will initially work in
Trash Magic. The full technical description of this system will take up
much of the future volumes which will come after the Manifesto.

We need to do all the things with fluids that living systems do, as well
as some things they do not. Everything we use to build with should also
be used for fluidics. This means we need fluid channels to be cut into
stone, wood, plastic, and metal. Part of the initial Trash Magic set of
skills and tools will be to enable this. Probably the easiest to do are
the two I've done already: wood and plastic.

The use of salvaged plastic for fluidics is worth focusing on here
because it's such a hallmark of our way of doing things. The thing that
makes plastic special for our purposes is how easily it can be edited
after being formed. No plastic structure in our system is permanent. Any
joint, valve, pump, chamber, or tube can at some future time be reshaped
into other components as needed.

How do we do build a fluidic system that easily self-edits? Look at
blood. Blood is not just a fluid, it's a rich medium of machines and
information of all kinds which can do a huge array of tasks in the
living body. So should it be with our constructions. If the channels are
all filled with fluid, solid objects can be moved through the system
using fluid flow, rather than a propulsion system or external control
tool of some kind. All that is needed to edit the plastic walls of the
tubes are simple tools that combine heat and force to shape and weld.
Thus one of the elements of this has to be many sizes of simple robot
that do this work by remote control at various scales.

The issue of scale brings me to the next topic: the fractal nature of
our systems. A fractal has self-similarity over different size scales.
Mathematical fractals can have infinite numbers of scales of
self-similarity, but as I've repeatedly pointed out, this type of pure
math has no physical reality and we should look to things that actually
exist in nature as a guide for what is or is not useful from math. Look
at a fern. It is usually pointed to as an example of self-similarity to
show how relevant fractals are to the world around us. But notice a fern
is only self similar up to a point in both directions. As you go up to
the scale of a whole forrest, a fern is just a spec, with no fern-like
nature, and as you go down to the scale of atoms, that fern-like nature
is also lost. Thus we seek to build things which are fractal, but not
infinitely fractal.

Channels through the plastic, wood and stone should be filled with fluid
much of the time, but can also be used for various gasses including air,
as well as possibly vacuum in some cases.

For pumps, the simplest solution is the first choice. This means
hydrostatic pressure from existing bodies of water are a first choice
for an overall pressure bias, and for user control the first choice is
direct manual manipulation of flexible membranes. Rather than a user
controlling a button that controls an electrical signal which controls a
machine that controls the fluid, I think it's always better to have
direct connection between your body and the solid that controls the
fluid. This means flexible membranes and various tubes to transform up
or down in pressure or volume.

Something that we can try to do with Magic that the capitalists avoid is
work with chaos and complexity by using our skill as living minds to
learn how to do that. For fluids, this means that I would argue vortices
should play a larger role, We can learn to generate them and manipulate
them, and that can be used to do chemistry at a very physically specific
region of a fluid. It might take skill to control a fluid probe in the
right way to make a vortex that can be used to carry out a useful
chemical reaction, but in our world view that is ok. Human skills are
better than fancy machines. The vortex ring(of which smoke rings are an
example), in particular, is a really beautiful thing which is under used
by the techno priests for obvious reasons.

I use the term ``fractal reactor'' to refer to the whole class of
technology/art that will be built up in the way described here, since
various reactions are a main goal of the systems.

\subsection{Brew Everything}\label{brew-everything}

It has become clear from recent advances in mainstream biotechnology
that almost anything can be brewed using what the capitalists call
``industrial fermentation''. This means that micro organisms are
cultivated and environments are controlled so that those organisms can
create products that are useful to humans. This generally involves
controlling temperature and pressure and flow and mixing accurately, as
well as making sure vessels are not cross contaminated with the
``wrong'' organisms.

One of the most important things to make free from capitalist control
are drugs. All drugs. Conventional western medicines to reduce swelling,
AIDS drugs, pain killers, specialized treatments of all sorts of
disease--all these must be made free. The capitalist system builds huge
centralized factories to carry out ``industrial fermentation'' so that
these things can be done for profit over a very large number of people.
If we are to eliminate these centralized factories, we need to be able
to make very small batches of safe, high quality medicine.

Making 10 doses of a drugs is never relevant to a capitalist, so we have
no idea how hard or easy that is. Our task as we redirect basic science
research away from profits is to change what questions we ask to better
reflect our values. Building a fractal reactor that can make a 6 months
supply of insulin, then can be reprogrammed easily to make 100 doses of
ibuprofen is simply not something the capitalists will ever do. But we
must do it.

We will need to be comfortable working with DNA quickly and efficiently
to do this. I think this will involve moving away from the current
system that uses a ton of statistics and computer work and fancy
chemicals and figure out how to use living things and our electrical
probes to physically manipulate DNA directly using electrochemical
devices that integrate with various nanometer scale ion channels. I
essentially argue that as our technical systems look more like living
systems in other ways that building this type of thing that comes closer
to how real life works will be easier and easier as our science
progresses.

I think it is impossible to overstate the potential value of really free
medicine. This is one of the ways the capitalists fail the most
painfully to care for the people in their society. If the choice is 500
dollars a month for a capitalist medicine or zero dollars for a free
medicine that is also targeted specifically to your personal metabolism
and genetic code, it will not be difficult to convince people of the
inferiority of capitalism.

As with food, clean water is almost too obvious to belabor--everyone
knows we need free water, and everyone who's not completely brain washed
can see capitalist behavior in regard to clean water is pure evil. Free
water: we need it. Capitalism is a failed system, time to move on.

\subsection{Ion Magic}\label{ion-magic}

Life is electric. In life, when information flows in a nerve pulse or
when we pump molecular fuel in and out of a cell, electrical charge
flows from one place to another. When electricity flows in salty dirty
water, it is generally in the form of ions, which are atoms that have
either lost or gained an electron, making them carry a nonzero total
charge. Chemists use the ``+'' and ``-'' to indicate that an atom has
either lost or gained charge, and how much. When salt is dissolved in
water, the chlorine turns into Cl- ions and the sodium becomes Na+ ions.

Nerve impulses involve the flow of K+ ions, which are potassium with a
missing electron. So when you eat food that has potassium as a nutrient
it appears as a solid but when your nerves use it to operate it's an
ion. Ions are central to what makes life life rather than just dead
matter. Thus I identify the ion as another of the fundamental alchemy
elements along with earth, air, water, and fire.

Most of what we call chemistry and biology are in fact electrical
processes. If we want to integrate our art into those processes we need
to be able to interact with flowing ions, both detecting and controlling
them. An integral tool of the Trash Magician is thus a probe which
allows us to do these things in a simple way.

How do we interact with ions? By batting them back and forth like a cat
with a ball of yarn. A capacitor is a simple electrical device that
stores charge. Pretty much everything in the universe is a capacitor at
some level, but our industry has built them to specified values and
they're very easy to control and salvage. The behavior of a charging
capacitor is very much like that of a tank of water. How fast you can
fill or empty a tank of water depends on both the capacity of the tank
to hold water and the conductance of the pipe you drain it or fill it
through. If you can change the direction of flow quickly compared to how
long it takes to fill or empty the tank, you can set any of various
average water levels, and ramp the flow rate up or down as well. Going
back to our electrical probe, the capacitor is the water tank and in our
case the actual fluid we are connecting to is like the water pipe(but
for electric charge). This is perhaps confusing because I'm making an
analogy between two fairly similar systems, but it should become more
clear after you actually get to see and use this machine.

This tool seems obscure but it is extremely useful. The first thing it
does is measure the electrical conductance(how much current flows for a
given voltage difference) in real time. It does this by choosing an
average capacitor voltage, then alternating the flow of electrical
current with just the right rate to keep that balance for a given
oscillation level. This oscillation in current will create a signal the
frequency of which is set by conductance. With amplifiers and speakers,
this means conductance can be played out as a musical note! We have thus
created a combination musical and scientific instrument, which allows
you to both work on chemicals as pure art and to measure their physical
and chemical properties.

A hand held or machine controlled(using the Tripod) probe like this with
audio feedback can be used to image objects based on their electrical
environment in a fluid. With many wheels and belts to take large motion
down to small motion it should be possible to use this to image objects
far smaller than we can see with visible light, even with the most
powerful microscopes. A truly free form of nano imaging like this should
immediately have impact on what science we can do for free, since it
will enable imaging much faster and in more places than the capitalist
science establishment can access.

Another key element for imaging is vibrational drive of fluids. Part of
the first phase of early Trash Magic technology will be a generic
mechanical vibrational drive. By using various mechanical resonators it
should be possible to drive water waves at many different frequencies.
With a time delay made by a very simple circuit which the Trash Magician
can control with a simple knob, it should be possible to time electrical
imaging with the vibration of the water, allowing a scan to be quickly
made in whatever axis the wave is on with potentially video rates.

This is how our technology integrates together! Sticks and rocks and
plastic trash are used to make a fluid circuit with electrical
connections, then another stick with an electrical probe is used to play
the fluid as a musical instrument, and another stick is used to create a
vibration, and a bunch more circuits made from trash are used to make a
visual display from this.

The time delayed imaging can also be used with optical microscopy in
combination with the electrical probe. A strobe light which is triggered
by the mechanical oscillations can be tuned in its time delay to create
amazing artistic effects with projected light from optical microcopy of
fluid channels filled with living things! This will get much more
attention in the next volume of this work, but suffice it to say here
that some simple optics for both microscopy and projection must be
integrated into Trash Magic sticks and rocks and trash for this to be
ever present to connect us with the microscopic world in an artistic
way. Part of this system should involve projection on a wall or screen,
and part should involve integration into goggles for an immersive
experience.

So far I've discussed this probe for imaging, but also made some vague
claims that it can do more than that. Using vibration and probe motion
and pumps to control fluid flow while also using the probe and various
other wires in the fluid to control voltage allows us to control the
local ``electrochemical potential''. This quantity is essentially what
tells an ion a place is good to be or not. It is how you get ions to
move, the essence of Ionic Trash Magic. Anywhere you have ions in your
fluid(which is everywhere) there is some value of this electrochemical
potential. There is thus always a preferred direction for ions to flow.

So this probe is nothing less than a magic wand that lets us control how
ions flow in the whole world that we care about(dirty salty water)! What
atom these ions come from can be controlled both by flowing chemicals
around and by changing which metal our wires are made from. If we then
combine that with the ability to move living things through our
plumbing(bacteria, tiny worms, aquatic fungi, etc.) which all also
control ion flow, we have truly Magical powers over this world. Ion
Magic.

What can we do with these powers? I don't really know yet. The fact that
things will be easy and free to try will create a massive flow of
amazing discoveries with this once it's deployed in a truly free way. I
think that it will be possible, however, to very easily integrate
biological systems with electrical systems, making things like DNA
sequencing and also neural interfaces exponentially easier. I also think
it will be possible to make potions that are right on the edge of some
transition, such as from liquid to solid, and move the probe around to
3d print solids right in a liquid, then go back and edit that solid,
adding and removing parts as needed later. This is far less fantastic
than it sounds, collagen, the structural molecule found in blood is
known to be fairly simple to control using electricity in much more
crude apparatus than what I propose here. I'm fairly sure the only
reason we are not 3d printing with collagen in a stone dish with some
trash based magic stick is that no one has tried. So let's do that! And
bury capitalist science in the landfill of history.

\subsection{The SlimeZistor}\label{the-slimezistor}

I have coined the term SlimeZistor here to refer to the hybrid
electrical and fluidic elements which will make up our systems. The idea
is that I'm not sure what the slime will be(swamp scum, tap water, blood
plasma, orange juice, etc.) or even how the electrical leads will be
connected, but I'm willing to draw a black box and say ``in this box are
both fluid channels and wires and they're a SlimeZistor''.

I'm leaving it open! One of the things I find infuriating about
capitalist device physics is the endless classification of tedious sub
species of device. Who cares? Most of the time, I want a switch or some
memory or some energy flow or something--and I never want to have to
care what long acronym the specific device used to do that has. It's the
virus of professionalism rearing it's ugly head! The more complex the
system of classification of basic electronic devices is, the more highly
paid member of the technocratic priesthood can be supported by it. Those
devices are never transparent and thus never free: much tedious and
otherwise useless data must be absorbed to use them, making them very
non-free.

I will say the SlimeZistor will involve all the fractal reactor stuff
described here as well as the electrochemical probe, vibrational motors,
simple oscillators with capacitors, optical circuits and the like--the
elements of the rest of Trash Magic. We are attacking the divisions made
by the number worshippers here. Just as everything in the universe can
store a little charge and is therefore a capacitor, everything in the
universe can be operated as a switch and therefore is a transistor. If
everything we care about is made of some form of slime, it's all
SlimeZistors!

\subsection{Editing Capitalist
Electronics}\label{editing-capitalist-electronics}

It is undeniable that the capitalists have built an impressive wealth of
microchips! Just about everything they make now is crammed with absurdly
complex micro electronic circuits, with millions or billions of
transistors on them, running at absurdly fast speeds with clocks of
millions or billions of beats per second. Let's use all that, but not
buy into it.

To connect with the electronics we first rip it all out using destructor
robots. These can be probes in tripods that rip apart the cases so that
the raw circuits are in our fluid. We then use the probe mentioned above
to grow metal wires right in the slime which connect the various pads of
the circuit with our SlimeZistor based circuits. We need to build up a
protocol for using chips this way without fully integrating our
technology with the horrible software which pollutes the capitalist
chips. This will be a trial and error process, and we must not be held
back by theory--we must simply do it and then write down how we did it.

As I said above, I think you can see evil ideologies polluting every
atom in the modern capitalist chip controlled by the Silicon Valley
cartel. I think it is worth mentioning here that one of the founders of
Silicon Valley was William Shockley, an infamous white supremacist with
many extreme views on race and racial purity. The engineering
manifestation of white supremacy and worship of numbers and military
force can be seen in the perfect rectangular arrays, rigid clock system
and extremely pure semiconductors used in modern micro fabrication. No
more fascist micro chips! We must smash them all, and absorb them into
something better. This also gives us a more complete form of cyborg
technology that the capitalists will ever have, since the SlimeZistor
will bridge the gap between the salvaged capitalist chips and the living
systems that are in the fractal reactor tubes.

\subsection{Plasma and Plasma}\label{plasma-and-plasma}

Different scientists use the word ``plasma'' to describe two very
different things. One, used by medical people and biologists, refers to
the main fluid of blood, the medium in which blood cells drift around.
The other refers to ionized gasses, and is most commonly seen in various
gas light tubes and glowing lightning displays. Trash Magic seeks to
unite the shattered pieces of science. To that end, we must bring the
plasmas under one roof!

By this I mean that I want to be comfortable that any given art piece we
build might have both blood plasma in it, which can be used to create a
3d object made of printed collagen for instance, and tubes carrying for
instance oxygen plasma, which can be used to aggressively clean surfaces
for various applications where that is useful. Oxygen can be extracted
from the water with electricity fairly easily, and waterweed-driven
vacuum pumps can create low pressure oxygen tubes. Waterwheel driven
high voltage generators can then be used to ionize the gas, making a
nice glowing tool that cuts through all kinds of dirt molecules readily
available anywhere we need it. Let's bring it all together!

Another plasma that should be readily available is methane. Methane
should be used as a process gas for making carbon nano
electronics(nanotubes, graphene, etc.). Since part of a complete
technological set will always be disposal of biological waste including
various types of feces, we will always have biological reactors making
methane from that process. Rather than release that gas into the
atmosphere it makes sense to always use it as a process gas to make
practical things from carbon(also including diamond, which can be useful
for many things). The human solid waste reactors will combine the
biological reactors described earlier in this section with various
fractal reactors that use the outputs of that initial conversion system.
Robots specialized in picking through the mass of waste from the future
toilets also need to be built, possibly as cyborgs with existing
composting organisms like worms will also be built.

\subsection{The Future: Free
Nanotechnology}\label{the-future-free-nanotechnology}

What all this is really heading towards is the realization of many of
the dreams of what the capitalists have called ``molecular
nanotechnology''. That is a hypothetical technology initially in which
atomically precise control of matter is carried out. Much hype was built
up in the 1990s by people inside the science establishment, which led to
a lot of funding and very little real advancement. Like all capitalist
technology, the sketches of the hypothetical future technology these
people made involved extremely precise and accurate control of every
atom over many size scales. We know from looking at living things that
this is neither needed nor wanted, and I think that's why they failed.
We need to build up a more artistic approach to moving and placing
atoms, and one which is more integrated with different systems.

With electrical gas plasma reactors we can create carbon nanostructures
with control over branching and shape, making carbon nano electronic
circuits. With ion transport and mechanical probes interacting with
living things, the ion magic of living things can be used by our system.
With imaging of the environment for ions in solutions we can have a
fast, simple and experimentally relevant nano imaging system deployed
for free everywhere. Ultimately what this leads to is not just complete
sets of technology which don't \emph{need} capitalism, but sets of
Magical components that vastly exceed in power what the capitalists have
ever built or will ever build.
