## Technology Should be Slimy and Dirty

Look around you.  We are leaky bags of salty dirty water, and we are surrounded by mud and dirty rocks on all sides.  This is the world we live and grow and thrive in.  It's how our food grows, it's how our waste is disposed of, it's how we get our raw materials and how we dispose of our "trash".  

And yet this is not how our technology is.  

Our technology is, instead, obsessed with the clean and "pure".  It is obsessed with order, with perfect rows of things, with straight lines and perfectly geometric circles.  The very structure of all our technology represents our worship of numbers and math and military order, as well as of mining and minerals.  

I will go into more detail on this later, but I believe the structure of the modern micofabricated circuit is a product of the white supremacist ideology of the far right lunatics who started Silicon Valley.  They were, like all of their kind, obsessed with "purity", order, and forcing everyone to march to a perfectly timed clock.  This is borne out in a machine architecture which they pretend is a product of some kind of technical evolution but which is just as much a function of their capitalist religion as the rows of decorative stone columns they place outside their buildings of power.  

If, rather than Evil Machines, we want our technology to be more human and more life like, it should resemble what we see around us in the living world. This means it should be largely filled with and immersed in dirty water.  And it should be capable of moving fluids and gasses around at around with simple circulation systems. 

Another key distinction of living systems is that they do not distinguish between material transport, data transport, energy and electrical transport.  All of these involve the flow of ions and various big molecules through fluids.  

Our non-living technical systems crudely split these functions off from one another.  We have banished pure information to the domain of "computers", all controlled by the all powerful Master Control Program of the Central Processing Unit.  Fluids flow as needed for cooling for chemicals, but are clearly lower in the hierarchy than information which rules all in today's "tech" world.  Ions in fluid rarely take a deliberate role unless it's in a living system and cannot be avoided(people drinking sport drinks with electrolytes, or use of acid in car batteries).  
  
## Moving Fluids Around

One type of magic that must be wielded if we expect to have a decent life is potion making.  This means mixing fluids, moving them around with pumps, compressing them, running electricity through them, and also doing things with gasses of various kinds.  This is needed to efficiently compost waste at a high speed safely and to build up plant growth infrastructure fast for food production. It is also where novel chemicals and various life saving drugs come from. 

Fluidics is generally a term used to refer to the use of fluids in ways that are analogous to electronic circuits.  Since Trash Magic seeks to eliminate the boundaries between fluid flow and electronics, I want to integrate this word into our vocabulary to help blur that line.  Here I will briefly describe how the fluidic systems will initially work in Trash Magic.  The full technical description of this system will take up much of the future volumes which will come after the Manifesto.  

We need to do all the things with fluids that living systems do, as well as some things they do not.  Everything we use to build with should also be used for fluidics.  This means we need fluid channels to be cut into stone, wood, plastic, and metal.  Part of the initial Trash Magic set of skills and tools will be to enable this.  Probably the easiest to do are the two I've done already: wood and plastic.  

The use of salvaged plastic for fluidics is worth focusing on here because it's such a hallmark of our way of doing things.  The thing that makes plastic special for our purposes is how easily it can be edited after being formed.  No plastic structure in our system is permanent.  Any joint, valve, pump, chamber, or tube can at some future time be reshaped into other components as needed.  

How do we do build a fluidic system that easily self-edits?   Look at blood.  Blood is not just a fluid, it's a rich medium of machines and information of all kinds which can do a huge array of tasks in the living body.  So should it be with our constructions.  If the channels are all filled with fluid, solid objects can be moved through the system using fluid flow, rather than a propulsion system or external control tool of some kind.  All that is needed to edit the plastic walls of the tubes are simple tools that combine heat and force to shape and weld.  Thus one of the elements of this has to be many sizes of simple robot that do this work by remote control at various scales. 

The issue of scale brings me to the next topic: the fractal nature of our systems.  A fractal has self-similarity over different size scales.  Mathematical fractals can have infinite numbers of scales of self-similarity, but as I've repeatedly pointed out, this type of pure math has no physical reality and we should look to things that actually exist in nature as a guide for what is or is not useful from math.  Look at a fern.  It is usually pointed to as an example of self-similarity to show how relevant fractals are to the world around us.  But notice a fern is only self similar up to a point in both directions.  As you go up to the scale of a whole forrest, a fern is just a spec, with no fern-like nature, and as you go down to the scale of atoms, that fern-like nature is also lost.  Thus we seek to build things which are fractal, but not infinitely fractal.  

Channels through the plastic, wood and stone should be filled with fluid much of the time, but can also be used for various gasses including air, as well as possibly vacuum in some cases.  

For pumps, the simplest solution is the first choice.  This means hydrostatic pressure from existing bodies of water are a first choice for an overall pressure bias, and for user control the first choice is direct manual manipulation of flexible membranes.  Rather than a user controlling a button that controls an electrical signal which controls a machine that controls the fluid, I think it's always better to have direct connection between your body and the solid that controls the fluid.  This means flexible membranes and various tubes to transform up or down in pressure or volume.  

Something that we can try to do with Magic that the capitalists avoid is work with chaos and complexity by using our skill as living minds to learn how to do that.  For fluids, this means that I would argue vortices should play a larger role,  We can learn to generate them and manipulate them, and that can be used to do chemistry at a very physically specific region of a fluid.  It might take skill to control a fluid probe in the right way to make a vortex that can be used to carry out a useful chemical reaction, but in our world view that is ok.  Human skills are better than fancy machines.  The vortex ring(of which smoke rings are an example), in particular, is a really beautiful thing which is under used by the techno priests for obvious reasons.  

I use the term "fractal reactor" to refer to the whole class of technology/art that will be built up in the way described here, since various reactions are a main goal of the systems.  

## Brew Everything

It has become clear from recent advances in mainstream biotechnology that almost anything can be brewed using what the capitalists call "industrial fermentation".  This means that micro organisms are cultivated and environments are controlled so that those organisms can create products that are useful to humans.  This generally involves controlling temperature and pressure and flow and mixing accurately, as well as making sure vessels are not cross contaminated with the "wrong" organisms.  

One of the most important things to make free from capitalist control are drugs.  All drugs.  Conventional western medicines to reduce swelling, AIDS drugs, pain killers, specialized treatments of all sorts of disease--all these must be made free.  The capitalist system builds huge centralized factories to carry out "industrial fermentation" so that these things can be done for profit over a very large number of people.  If we are to eliminate these centralized factories, we need to be able to make very small batches of safe, high quality medicine.  

Making 10 doses of a drugs is never relevant to a capitalist, so we have no idea how hard or easy that is.  Our task as we redirect basic science research away from profits is to change what questions we ask to better reflect our values.  Building a fractal reactor that can make a 6 months supply of insulin, then can be reprogrammed easily to make 100 doses of ibuprofen is simply not something the capitalists will ever do.  But we must do it.  

We will need to be comfortable working with DNA quickly and efficiently to do this.  I think this will involve moving away from the current system that uses a ton of statistics and computer work and fancy chemicals and figure out how to use living things and our electrical probes to physically manipulate DNA directly using electrochemical devices that integrate with various nanometer scale ion channels.  I essentially argue that as our technical systems look more like living systems in other ways that building this type  of thing that comes closer to how real life works will be easier and easier as our science progresses.  

I think it is impossible to overstate the potential value of really free medicine.  This is one of the ways the capitalists fail the most painfully to care for the people in their society.  If the choice is 500 dollars a month for a capitalist medicine or zero dollars for a free medicine that is also targeted specifically to your personal metabolism and genetic code, it will not be difficult to convince people of the inferiority of capitalism.  

As with food, clean water is almost too obvious to belabor--everyone knows we need free water, and everyone who's not completely brain washed can see capitalist behavior in regard to clean water is pure evil.  Free water: we need it.  Capitalism is a failed system, time to move on.  


## Ion Magic 

Life is electric.  In life, when information flows in a nerve pulse or when we pump molecular fuel in and out of a cell, electrical charge flows from one place to another.  When electricity flows in salty dirty water, it is generally in the form of ions, which are atoms that have either lost or gained an electron, making them carry a nonzero total charge.  Chemists use the "+" and "-" to indicate that an atom has either lost or gained charge, and how much.  When salt is dissolved in water, the chlorine turns into Cl- ions and the sodium becomes Na+ ions. 

 Nerve impulses involve the flow of K+ ions, which are potassium with a missing electron.  So when you eat food that has potassium as a nutrient it appears as a solid but when your nerves use it to operate it's an ion.  Ions are central to what makes life life rather than just dead matter.  Thus I identify the ion as another of the fundamental alchemy elements along with earth, air, water, and fire.  
 
Most of what we call chemistry and biology are in fact electrical processes. If we want to integrate our art into those processes we need to be able to interact with flowing ions, both detecting and controlling them.  An integral tool of the Trash Magician is thus a probe which allows us to do these things in a simple way.  

How do we interact with ions?  By batting them back and forth like a cat with a ball of yarn.  A capacitor is a simple electrical device that stores charge.  Pretty much everything in the universe is a capacitor at some level, but our industry has built them to specified values and they're very easy to control and salvage.  The behavior of a charging capacitor is very much like that of a tank of water.  How fast you can fill or empty a tank of water depends on both the capacity of the tank to hold water and the conductance of the pipe you drain it or fill it through.  If you can change the direction of flow quickly compared to how long it takes to fill or empty the tank, you can set any of various average water levels, and ramp the flow rate up or down as well.  Going back to our electrical probe, the capacitor is the water tank and in our case the actual fluid we are connecting to is like the water pipe(but for electric charge).  This is perhaps confusing because I'm making an analogy between two fairly similar systems, but it should become more clear after you actually get to see and use this machine.  

This tool seems obscure but it is extremely useful.  The first thing it does is measure the electrical conductance(how much current flows for a given voltage difference) in real time.  It does this by choosing an average capacitor voltage, then alternating the flow of electrical current with just the right rate to keep that balance for a given oscillation level.  This oscillation in current will create a signal the frequency of which is set by conductance.  With amplifiers and speakers, this means conductance can be played out as a musical note!  We have thus created a combination musical and scientific instrument, which allows you to both work on chemicals as pure art and to measure their physical and chemical properties.  

A hand held or machine controlled(using the Tripod) probe like this with audio feedback can be used to image objects based on their electrical environment in a fluid.  With many wheels and belts to take large motion down to small motion it should be possible to use this to image objects far smaller than we can see with visible light, even with the most powerful microscopes.  A truly free form of nano imaging like this should immediately have impact on what science we can do for free, since it will enable imaging much faster and in more places than the capitalist science establishment can access. 

Another key element for imaging is vibrational drive of fluids.  Part of the first phase of early Trash Magic technology will be a generic mechanical vibrational drive.  By using various mechanical resonators it should be possible to drive water waves at many different frequencies.  With a time delay made by a very simple circuit which the Trash Magician can control with a simple knob, it should be possible to time electrical imaging with the vibration of the water, allowing a scan to be quickly made in whatever axis the wave is on with potentially video rates.  

This is how our technology integrates together!  Sticks and rocks and plastic trash are used to make a fluid circuit with electrical connections, then another stick with an electrical probe is used to play the fluid as a musical instrument, and another stick is used to create a vibration, and a bunch more circuits made from trash are used to make a visual display from this.  

The time delayed imaging can also be used with optical microscopy in combination with the electrical probe.  A strobe light which is triggered by the mechanical oscillations can be tuned in its time delay to create amazing artistic effects with projected light from optical microcopy of fluid channels filled with living things!  This will get much more attention in the next volume of this work, but suffice it to say here that some simple optics for both microscopy and projection must be integrated into Trash Magic sticks and rocks and trash for this to be ever present to connect us with the microscopic world in an artistic way.  Part of this system should involve projection on a wall or screen, and part should involve integration into goggles for an immersive experience.    

So far I've discussed this probe for imaging, but also made some vague claims that it can do more than that.  Using vibration and probe motion and pumps to control fluid flow while also using the probe and various other wires in the fluid to control voltage allows us to control the local "electrochemical potential".  This quantity is essentially what tells an ion a place is good to be or not.  It is how you get ions to move, the essence of Ionic Trash Magic.  Anywhere you have ions in your fluid(which is everywhere) there is some value of this electrochemical potential.  There is thus always a preferred direction for ions to flow.  

So this probe is nothing less than a magic wand that lets us control how ions flow in the whole world that we care about(dirty salty water)!  What atom these ions come from can be controlled both by flowing chemicals around and by changing which metal our wires are made from.  If we then combine that with the ability to move living things through our plumbing(bacteria, tiny worms, aquatic fungi, etc.) which all also control ion flow, we have truly Magical powers over this world.  Ion Magic.  

What can we do with these powers?  I don't really know yet.  The fact that things will be easy and free to try will create a massive flow of amazing discoveries with this once it's deployed in a truly free way.  I think that it will be possible, however, to very easily integrate biological systems with electrical systems, making things like DNA sequencing and also neural interfaces exponentially easier.  I also think it will be possible to make potions that are right on the edge of some transition, such as from liquid to solid, and move the probe around to 3d print solids right in a liquid, then go back and edit that solid, adding and removing parts as needed later.  This is far less fantastic than it sounds, collagen, the structural molecule found in blood is known to be fairly simple to control using electricity in much more crude apparatus than what I propose here.   I'm fairly sure the only reason we are not 3d printing with collagen in a stone dish with some trash based magic stick is that no one has tried.  So let's do that! And bury capitalist science in the landfill of history.  

## The SlimeZistor

I have coined the term SlimeZistor here to refer to the hybrid electrical and fluidic elements which will make up our systems.  The idea is that I'm not sure what the slime will be(swamp scum, tap water, blood plasma, orange juice, etc.) or even how the electrical leads will be connected, but I'm willing to draw a black box and say "in this box are both fluid channels and wires and they're a SlimeZistor".  

I'm leaving it open!  One of the things I find infuriating about capitalist device physics is the endless classification of tedious sub species of device.  Who cares?  Most of the time, I want a switch or some memory or some energy flow or something--and I never want to have to care what long acronym the specific device used to do that has.  It's the virus of professionalism rearing it's ugly head! The more complex the system of classification of basic electronic devices is, the more highly paid member of the technocratic priesthood can be supported by it.  Those devices are never transparent and thus never free: much tedious and otherwise useless data must be absorbed to use them, making them very non-free.  

I will say the SlimeZistor will involve all the fractal reactor stuff described here as well as the electrochemical probe, vibrational motors, simple oscillators with capacitors, optical circuits and the like--the elements of the rest of Trash Magic.  We are attacking the divisions made by the number worshippers here.  Just as everything in the universe can store a little charge and is therefore a capacitor, everything in the universe can be operated as a switch and therefore is a transistor.  If everything we care about is made of some form of slime, it's all SlimeZistors!

## Editing Capitalist Electronics

It is undeniable that the capitalists have built an impressive wealth of microchips!  Just about everything they make now is crammed with absurdly complex micro electronic circuits, with millions or billions of transistors on them, running at absurdly fast speeds with clocks of millions or billions of beats per second.  Let's use all that, but not buy into it.  

To connect with the electronics we first rip it all out using destructor robots. These can be probes in tripods that rip apart the cases so that the raw circuits are in our fluid.  We then use the probe mentioned above to grow metal wires right in the slime which connect the various pads of the circuit with our SlimeZistor based circuits.  We need to build up a protocol for using chips this way without fully integrating our technology with the horrible software which pollutes the capitalist chips.  This will be a trial and error process, and we must not be held back by theory--we must simply do it and then write down how we did it.  

As I said above, I think you can see evil ideologies polluting every atom in the modern capitalist chip controlled by the Silicon Valley cartel.  I think it is worth mentioning here that one of the founders of Silicon Valley was William Shockley, an infamous white supremacist with many extreme views on race and racial purity.  The engineering manifestation of white supremacy and worship of numbers and military force can be seen in the perfect rectangular arrays, rigid clock system and extremely pure semiconductors used in modern micro fabrication.  No more fascist micro chips!  We must smash them all, and absorb them into something better.  This also gives us a more complete form of cyborg technology that the capitalists will ever have, since the SlimeZistor will bridge the gap between the salvaged capitalist chips and the living systems that are in the fractal reactor tubes.  

## Plasma and Plasma 

Different scientists use the word "plasma" to describe two very different things.  One, used by medical people and biologists, refers to the main fluid of blood, the medium in which blood cells drift around.  The other refers to ionized gasses, and is most commonly seen in various gas light tubes and glowing lightning displays.  Trash Magic seeks to unite the shattered pieces of science.  To that end, we must bring the plasmas under one roof!  

By this I mean that I want to be comfortable that any given art piece we build might have both blood plasma in it, which can be used to create a 3d object made of printed collagen for instance, and tubes carrying for instance oxygen plasma, which can be used to aggressively clean surfaces for various applications where that is useful.  Oxygen can be extracted from the water with electricity fairly easily, and waterweed-driven vacuum pumps can create low pressure oxygen tubes.  Waterwheel driven high voltage generators can then be used to ionize the gas, making a nice glowing tool that cuts through all kinds of dirt molecules readily available anywhere we need it.  Let's bring it all together! 

Another plasma that should be readily available is methane.  Methane should be used as a process gas for making carbon nano electronics(nanotubes, graphene, etc.).  Since part of a complete technological set will always be disposal of biological waste including various types of feces, we will always have biological reactors making methane from that process. Rather than release that gas into the atmosphere it makes sense to always use it as a process gas to make practical things from carbon(also including diamond, which can be useful for many things).  The human solid waste reactors will combine the biological reactors described earlier in this section with various fractal reactors that use the outputs of that initial conversion system.  Robots specialized in picking through the mass of waste from the future toilets also need to be built, possibly as cyborgs with existing composting organisms like worms will also be built. 

## The Future: Free Nanotechnology

What all this is really heading towards is the realization of many of the dreams of what the capitalists have called "molecular nanotechnology".  That is a hypothetical technology initially in which atomically precise control of matter is carried out.  Much hype was built up in the 1990s by people inside the science establishment, which led to a lot of funding and very little real advancement.  Like all capitalist technology, the sketches of the hypothetical future technology these people made involved extremely precise and accurate control of every atom over many size scales.  We know from looking at living things that this is neither needed nor wanted, and I think that's why they failed.  We need to build up a more artistic approach to moving and placing atoms, and one which is more integrated with different systems. 

With electrical gas plasma reactors we can create carbon nanostructures with control over branching and shape, making carbon nano electronic circuits. With ion transport and mechanical probes interacting with living things, the ion magic of living things can be used by our system.  With imaging of the environment for ions in solutions we can have a fast, simple and experimentally relevant nano imaging system deployed for free everywhere.  Ultimately what this leads to is not just complete sets of technology which don't *need* capitalism, but sets of Magical components that vastly exceed in power what the capitalists have ever built or will ever build.  






