### Currency Diagrams
This will be pictures not words.This is now how I see “the system”. A circle of debt and power links all people with business and finance to be deployed as needed to support the military industrial complex. I no longer believe in the words “money” or “government”. These are both fictions. There is only debt, power, and the military industrial complex. All of this exists to use fire to turn earth into debt and power and complete the cycle. Denominating that debt by numbers which have power unto themselves without the whole cycle is a unspoken State Religion adopted by all modern states and corporations.
This is what value should look like:People do labor using industrial “waste” of the old system until it’s all cycled through the new system, using ambient energy which comes originally from the sun, and the living ecosystem that is supported by and supports that cycle in circles of value. Circles can be formed large and small, and involve trust between members of the circle which is initially fixed and which has a finite lifetime. Circles can have any of many different possible rules and structures, can live for a long time or very briefly, etc. They might have as part of their interior various physical artifacts or not, or various mathematical artifacts or not.
Circles may intersect in nodes which can have their own sets of rules. The level of complexity of the infinitely expanding system of value circles and nodes and networks has no serious theoretical limit. I imagine that the amount of data required to denote a value circle is always going to be small, even with some fairly verbose ASCII formatted text about background, stories and rules etc. Media might be needed which could take up a lot more space, but that should all be linked to from the core value circle object.### Creation of ValueSuppose I have a motor I have built, and you have need for a motor. Suppose I have built 1000 motors so I can easily spare a couple for your robot. You need a robot, I can give you a robot, so of course I give you a robot. Together, we have created value in the world in this transaction because you having a robot and me having 999 robots is much more useful than me having 1000 robots and you having zero robots. MUCH more!
Right now we have two choices: we can just call it a gift, hand you the robot, and I can feel like a nice guy. Or I can demand some “money” for it, after which we say I “sold” the robot to you. I put scare quotes around these words, as I often do, to denote that I’m about to reject the assumptions of these terms.

 When people say “money” they mean debt from the Federal reserve bank, or some other central bank. That debt has value because it is backed by the military might of the United States, which accepts that debt in its collection of taxes. But this is fucked. Why should we need debt from some military backed bank in order to do this clearly positive transaction? Surely just doing this adds value to society and we should be able to denote that without federal reserve debt. But there is not necessarily any motivation for anyone to make that possible.
 So what is the alternative? It seems that the most common alternative is the Marx-influenced concept of the time dollar. A local currency can be created based on hours of labor which can be exchanged through a community without any government involvement, taxes, or any banks. But that is of no help for our robot transaction. My robots were built by robots and took no labor. When you get the robot, it will do labor so you don’t have to. By carrying out a transaction that saves labor, we’re decreasing the value available in the system according to Marxian labor theory of value. Anything that makes life easier creates deflation in a labor based currency, which users of federal reserve debt can attest to the horror of.
I propose that a usable way to communicate value outside of bank debt will involve the ability of people carrying out a transaction to simply create a marker of the value they mutually created. I also propose that fancy math will not be the basis of this. Especially fancy math backed by faith in libertarian neck beard fucks(you know what currency I’m talking about). It will be based on trust. Trust of the people involved in the transaction, which moves like a bubble through the untrusted mass of society.I propose that one way to do this is for a transaction to be a chapter in a story, and that that story caries the value. So it works like this: I give you a robot. We write a very short story about this, why we did it why it was a good idea, why the robot is cool, etc. Short, to the point, with some details. Now, I can take this story down to the coffee shop and say “hey, man, can I have some coffee, I gave someone a robot today!” They say “yeah, you can have coffee here for the next week or so for a robot, sure. That’s the next chapter of the story. They pass that along to their milk supplier, who adds another chapter and sends it to the fence post company, who takes the longer story to an affiliate coop out in the country who is part of our network, who delivers a much more substantial wood processing robot machine. A real monster. And so on.
It’s not a fully formed system, but I don’t think a good system ever really will be. It’s worth a try, better than nothing, better than federal reserve debt.

### More on Value CirclesAnother element of the value circle currency concepts is myths. Myths, legends, narratives, call it what you want. One way to create shared trust between members of a value circle is to have shared culture, or folklore.
Do people believe these to be actually true? Maybe. Maybe it doesn’t matter. My view is that existing money already has a weird religious belief built in of the most dangerous possible kind: that which people don’t even acknowledge IS a belief. The entire world view created by the monetary system where everyone has to exchange central bank debt is not related to physical, social, or biological reality. It’s a artificial creation which harms most of the people who without having a choice or even understanding that they made the choice are forced to live their lives by it.

 One way to combat what is essentially a very conservative religion is to form a belief system outside it, making the transition from the money belief system to a new one more explicit than just “losing faith” in money which does not force the concept of money to be treated as a religion.
 What would be an example? I think initially they would tend to fall into two categories: fan fiction and religion. One of the easiest ways to build a mythology of a value circle is to do something like base things off of Star Wars or Supernatural or something. It helps when people know a thing well enough to have a shared reference easily right from the start. For people who already have some sort of religion, building a trust network based on that both formally and informally is an obvious way to get started. Of course other values would be shared by a value circle, including technically specific elements like “meters of 24 AWG copper magnet wire”, but on top of the specific parts, I believe having something less quantitative and more personal is useful. More on this later, this ongoing stack of aspects to the Value Circle.



### On Money and Additive ValueI hate money, and also love it, and that is typical of people in our civilization. I’ve thought a lot about all that over the last year of my total personal disillusionment with capitalism. I’m definitely against most of how our “economy” works, and definitely in favor of something else, but it’s hard to even know where to start with all that.One habit I’ve acquired over the last few months of reading and thinking about anti-capitalism is replacing the word “money” in my mind with “federal reserve debt”. That’s literally what it is, and constantly reminding myself of that helps me to think clearly about the world around me and what to do about it.
One thing that I hate about money that I want to raise here is that it is dissipative. When a transaction occurs, one party transfers their federal reserve debt to another in exchange for some more real good or service. That transfer has all kinds of losses in it. First of all, in the money system the most value that can possibly exist after the transaction is the amount you started with. Until another party is brought in, in a single transaction, the amount of federal reserve debt always goes down, just as the amount of entropy always goes up in chemistry.
Looking at a system like this it’s clear that the best way to accumulate federal reserve debt is to be the dissipation. One way to do this is literally to take something from the transaction, which is what paypal and banks and credit cards and the rest of the finance industry do. Another is to make money off taxes, as the military industrial complex does. And a third is to be a middle man in the information channel from seller to buyer, by being in the advertising/marketing industry. And indeed I argue that these three types of accumulation are the main power lines in our society: military, finance and marketing. Plenty of power and wealth accumulators are all three or some combination, but I argue that most power in our society is based on these three pillars because they are the optimal means to accumulate federal reserve debt. Everything else loses to these dissipations and eventually feeds someone in one of these three pillars more than your little project possibly ever can accumulate.
It is not so much my goal here to attack the concept of central bank debt, taxes, etc. as to think about how to get outside this to add and exchange value without that system. What I argue is that a transaction should add a note of value to both sides, not just one, and that it should require no value on a balance sheet before the transaction. This second part is extremely critical. One of the crippling problems of our current system is that it prevents anyone from being self sufficient, ever. If some group wants to exchange goods and services in a closed economy they need to first get federal reserve debt from the outside in order to even have units of currency with which to work. Add dissipation to that, and eventually they’ll always be more and more dependent over time on the outside world, and be forced to participate in global capitalism. A system that addresses these problems must allow parties to agree to do a thing, do it, and create from nothing the value that can be further passed along to the rest of society. Another critical flaw in the money system is the negative value of work. We assume that in any work transaction there is a winner and a loser. E.g. at a gym everyone has to either pay or get paid, it’s assumed that the coaches are losing something and the athletes are gaining, so they are on opposite sides of a neutral or net-negative(with rent and taxes etc) transaction. But surely the coaches also gain? Are they not also athletes? And the athletes are working just as hard, why is their work somehow “opposite”?
All this is cleared up by the additive currency concept. Here a transaction creates a value pair, with half taken by each party. Thus when a personal trainer meets with an athlete, they each walk away with a unit of value equal to one times the value of that transaction. Let’s now go back to my motor factory supply chain. An urban scavenger rolls up on their bike with a big bin of copper wire, and we each record that that was of value and changed hands. They then take that value token to the local coffee shop who pours them coffee and both sides get the coffee transaction token. The coffee shop buys a coffee grinding machine using one of our motors from one of our customer factories, more tokens are generated on both sides. The coffee shop takes this new hoard of tokens and pays their workers, and this payment also generates value on both sides, further accumulating the wealth of the coffee shop who is a major pillar in all this. The grinder factory trades with us for motors in bulk, and some bulk material transaction value is again created on both sides of the sheet.
There is a strong analogy between this system and the so-called h-index used in academia. The h index is designed to create a measure of the success of an academic career based on the combination of two factors: how many times has someone published and how much are those publications cited. The idea is to avoid valuing either the one paper that gets 1000 citations or the author who publishes 100 papers a year none of which are ever read. Authors who both publish often and get frequently cited are, on average, going to be the biggest contributors to value in the field. For better or worse, h-index ends up having real value that can get turned into federal reserve debt by having an impact on hiring and promotions of academics. It’s not a perfect system by any means and is widely abused by departments but I think it’s an interesting proof of principle that this idea can be useful.
A missing part of all this is a proposed implementation strategy. How should the value be accounted for? I could think of a lot of ways to do it but I want to make the point that I think this is much less important and difficult than a lot of techno nerds want you to believe. Any store of value, whether it’s paypal, cash, or credit card debt is basically based on trust. Sure, there are anti-counterfeiting measures on bills and encryption on online transactions. But for the most part these systems work because most people can be trusted most of the time. If everyone really were out to steal and cheat, encryption would be nowhere near enough to save it, and it would collapse instantly. All this works because the VAST majority of people would rather do something useful than go into the illegal bill printing business or credit card theft. One way I think it could be done is with an archive of stories. Some kind of shared electronic narrative that includes all the transactions in the network. This is not great for doing illegal shit or avoiding government surveillance, and that is a problem in some ways. But not in the long run because it forces people to push back against the government controls a lot harder and faster and also because that stuff can always still happen with federal reserve debt, alternate and more anonymous systems, etc. Clearly there will be others for whom this doesn’t work. But I believe that a story- database-based system of value can work for some people. And if it works for anyone it’s instantly extremely powerful because it will grow exponentially and naturally find the people who can benefit from it most. Is it taxable? Probably not. If we do things “for free” meaning no federal reserve debt is exchanged at all, what is there to tax? Surely not vast, unencrypted databases of anecdotes and poems describing the actions of millions of people.
And it’s not even really necessarily a threat to the government tax system, I think. Part of how our system is as broken as it is is how differently it serves those who control the pillars of power from the rest of us. The fact is that the capitalist overlords, governments, military machines etc. don’t really need the vast majority of us to exist. Our demands for food, medical care, housing etc. are mostly an inconvenience to them. An economy like this might take what looks like potential tax revenue out of the system, but it also takes an incredibly vast load of social welfare spending off of the existing system, since that kind of value is so much better created in the additive value system.One more point is that I don’t consider bitcoin to be in any way relevant to fixing the money system. With any form of currency, you have to ask “who do I trust when I place trust in this?” I have lots of criticisms of the central banks, and the federal reserve in particular. But given the choice between central bankers and some neck beard fedora software montherfuckers, I’ll take the central bankers any day of the week. Because the demographic in charge of bitcoin is, in my view, the single least trustworthy group that exists in our society. Also, building deflation into a currency is so bizarrely pathological it’s not even worth looking at. Bitcoin isn’t money, neck beards are not revolutionaries, it’s time to move on.
So where do we start? I think I want to build a supply chain out of trash, and then just try the database of stories method and see what happens. Having a supply chain that is clearly of value will give me the leverage to start a thing like this. So probably another year or two are required, and hopefully by then I’ll be more comfortable with python and will be able to build a prototype software system to start this off.


### Free Feed of the Value CirclesPeople love their feeds. Facebook, Twitter, Yammer, news feeds, tumblr feeds, text message feeds, push notification feeds. It has proven to be a very widely liked format for a person to see the passage of time of a community of people. Value circles should include this feed concept. Working on your stuff will add media content from your device which gets added to the main value circle database and then fed into various users’ feeds based on their filter choices. I think if you are not trying to make money that this whole thing can be much simpler than the existing software and that Facebook etc can be replaced. However, it’s also possible that the best first implementation of this will be to do it in a existing commercial system like Facebook. This is obviously dangerous. Dealing with companies like that can have legal problems, control problems, and limitations on what you can do practically. It’s not ideal, but it’s something to consider. And the free feed that circulates and shares data to a web browser that can be loaded on the pi zero tablets of the trash wizards is a project that should be worked on immediately. Probably tools already exist that can be adapted for this task. This is worth some detail in the first book, it’s not physics, it’s code and that’s faster to deploy.

###	Trash Wizard Interaction with Capitalist Economics
We all have to live somehow, and most of us  can't just sink beneath the waves and escape capitalism overnight.  We need money to pay rent to live in a city where our loved ones are, to pay for medicine, get around on capitalist transit etc.  How do we do this ethically without just selling out?  
Here are the rules for Trash Wizard capitalist interations:
1.	Try not to buy raw materials and other peoples labor, salvage trash and rely on mutual aid for free, and build your own stuff
2.  To make money, selling labor is best, then selling stuff made from trash, always try to avoid labor and materials arbitrage: don't buy stuff then sell it don't pay people then re-sell their labor.  
3.  Do not sell misery, try to only work on things that are fun, while they stay fun, each product or service should be an ADVENTURE.

We create.  As long as our fed debt money comes from our labor and trash, we will always have a net gain of capitalist currency into our system, making hte sign of the dderviavie right.  sell one off art pieces for high prices.  All my pieces should be unique.  

