### Biography and Mission

I was born in Juneau, Alaska in 1976, and grew up in a cabin on the ocean there, homeschooled until 5th grade, when I lived in mainland China for 1 year, following which my family moved to central Connecticut where I finished high school.  I double majored in math and physics at UC Berkeley, finishing with a BA in 1998.  I then worked as a lab technician for 2 years, first in the [Zettl group](http://research.physics.berkeley.edu/zettl/) at UC Berkeley then in the [Schoelkopf group](http://rsl.yale.edu) at Yale University.  

I finished my PhD in applied physics at Yale in 2006, with a [dissertation](http://www.lulu.com/shop/lafe-spietz/the-shot-noise-thermometer-paperback/paperback/product-1569904.html) on building thermometers at very low temperatures.  After grad school I worked at [NIST](www.nist.gov) in Boulder, Colorado for about 6 years on superconducting electronics at high frequencies.  I left NIST for the private sector in 2012, founding two companies at the same time, one for building and selling consumer products and one for scientific research and consulting.  

In 2015 I became disillusioned with how new technology is deployed in the startup world and quit working on commercial consumer products to develop technology that can be built without relying on the current capitalist industrial system.  I now consult, write, and build full time, working on technologies that I believe can make life easier both for ordinary people and for professional scientists.  

My mission is to build applied physics for industrial development in a post capitalist world. I define capitalism as a system where human values are represented by integer numbers, combined with certain religious beliefs.  Those beliefs include the existence of private property as a concept, human misery as a source of value(work and the wage system), and the belief  that value derives from mined materials.  

I believe that this set of religious beliefs has been efficient at extracting vast mineral and energy wealth from the Earth and building a lot of machines that make life easier for some humans(but not most), but that it has far outlived its usefulness.  Note that when I say "capitalism", I'm using my own definition, which includes every modern nation state including the USSR and its various satellites: anyone who uses money and the basic concept of wealth based on money.

By "post capitalist" I mean a world where capitalism has successfully extracted so much mineral wealth from the world already that many high value materials can be found for free everywhere in the world in the waste streams of capitalist society in the form of plastic trash, computer trash, junk cars, etc.  While my personal political affiliation is roughly in the anarcho-syndicalist mold, I aim to create technology that ALL people of the world can use, modify, and expand on for free if they choose. I hope that these seeds can grow into many parallel industrial systems, breaking the monopoly of the current global economic regime of money, mining, and military force.  A more detailed discussion of these topics can be found in my manifesto-in-progress published on Github [here](https://github.com/LafeLabs/PostCapitalistIndustry/blob/master/README.md):

I do not hire people(after my startup experience I never want to have that responsibility again), but am happy to mentor students if anyone is interested in studying this way of technology development.  That could include undergrads, grad students in the physical sciences, artists, radicals, activists, witches, wizards, and hobos; anyone with an interest in using technology to build a more free world. 